hey guys welcome to him a threat
solutions today we're gonna be
relaunching our novel week series we've
been recording not of the week videos
dating back since 2009 but unfortunately
back then we didn't have HD and we
couldn't afford better camera equipment
to shoot those night of the week videos
in higher quality so today we're coming
back to reshoot those videos as well as
add some more details into the night of
the week videos so today we're gonna be
starting with the square knot and I'll
be walking you through not only the
square knot but some variations of that
as well so let's get right into it okay
with the square knot what you've got is
a knot that can be strong when properly
backed up as well as tied in a few
different variations so let's go through
those first of all the regular square
knot is a right over left and then a
left over right so I'll cross the right
end over the left end and twist and then
I'll cross the left end over the right
end and twist and that is a square knot
so the check point in this is that you
have two independently moving loops the
interface like that
back to what I mentioned as far as
backing up and not goes what you want to
do is simply tie something that is very
much like an overhand knot so you're
going to go over the standing part of
the line here with the tail or they
working in and then come back through
that loop
creating a backup in one end and what
that will help with is that if the knot
wants to pull through which I can't
sometimes I can get paracord to do this
sometimes you can't so if it were to
work its way through that knot would
almost act as a stopper to prevent that
from pulling through so let me do the
other end real quick
so again coming around with the working
end over the standing part of the line
back through creating a backup knot so
you want to have a backup in each end
and as I mentioned the closer that you
can get these backup knots to they may
not be more effective those will be if
it decides to slip so let's work on some
other variations here if you were to tie
the square knot the wrong way it would
turn into what's called a granny knot
so if I go right over left and then go
right over left again I would get the
granny knot and that's as you can see
slips quite a bit it's not very strong
in itself and just the wrong way to tie
the square knot to begin with so there's
some variations of the square knot as
well so if I were to tie right over left
left over right
you get myself a square knot I can
actually start this by undoing it a
little bit and feeding it in back
through and tightening again what that
gives you there is a slipped square knot
so now by just pulling on this kind of
gives me a quick release on my square
knot you can also do that as you're
tying too
so right here as I'm bringing this back
around I can pull through like this and
stop it there and create the slip part
of the slip square knot you can actually
do a double slip square knot as well so
if I were to take this end here and this
end here
straighten those out a little bit I'll
get the double slips square knot you can
see just by pulling on those it releases
like that there's also what's called a
thief's knot and the thief's not dates
back to many many years ago and if you
look at the structure of the regular
square knot remember I talked about the
the two loops that are created well with
a typical square knot what you've got or
your working ends on one side so I
missed there to the top if I were to
change this around a little bit I'll
keep my loop here and I'll keep my
working in there if I were to turn this
around here and now come over this side
and around like this now I've got one
working in on the top and one working in
on the bottom so it creates what's
called a thief's knot so now if someone
were to come by and retie this because
they saw it quickly and said oh that's a
square knot I'll just retie that if they
were to get into a sack or a duffel or
something that was tied back in the
olden days it would try to try as they
would try to try as tie a square knot
again which as you can see common square
knot
as those working ends on the same side
and that's not a square knot I don't
know what I just taught so if I were to
tie a square knot again as the working
ends on one side versus the thief's knot
which has the work hands on the opposite
side so those are some variations of the
square knot and how you can tell them